---
date: 2021-08-31
title: "Array<string> vs. string[]"
---

_#learning_ _#typescript_

_31st of August 2021_

---

♦

I've been using `Array<string>` format from the start and since my covorkers use it, I rarely encounter the other possibility. But this week there was a TypeScript related question posed on a local developer's FaceBook group and all other answers used `string[]` structure.

Until now, I didn't really question it, but I got curious. What are benefits of each? Are they the same?

No shocker, they are basically the same, this won't be terribly interesting. But along the way I found couple of cool new stuff that I learned and I wanted to take a longer look. Hence, this.

♦

`To specify the type of an array like [1, 2, 3], you can use the syntax number[]; this syntax works for any type (e.g. string[] is an array of strings, and so on). You may also see this written as Array<number>, which means the same thing.`

Ok that was fast. It's the same. So `string[]` is a shorthand for `Array<string>` and both can be used, since they are the same. But are their uses the same? I found a comment about TypeScript v3.2 that introduced changes to `readonly` type modifier, expanding it to arrays and tuples. It is only permitted on array and tuple literal types and does not work on both syntaxes:

```javascript
let err1: readonly Set<number>; // ERROR
let err2: readonly Array<boolean>; // ERROR

let ok: readonly boolean[]; // OK
```

But this does not mean that we can't have consistency on our projects, if we are usin Array<> syntax, we just need to use the new ReadonlyArray<> syntax. It descibes an array that we can only read from, so any variable with it's referene can't add, remove, or replace any elements in the array.

♦

This is my first time encountering a readonly modifier in TS. It seems neat. Why wouldn't I be able to set some variable to some value and prevent it's change. But then another question popped up. What is the difference between assigning a `readonly` and using a `const`?

One fun thing happens with arrays.

```javascript
const SimpleArray: Array<number> = [1, 2, 3];

SimpleArray[0] = 2; // OK
SimpleArray.push(4); // OK
SimpleArray.pop(); // OK

SimpleArray = [4, 5, 6]; // ERROR

let AnotherSimpleArray: ReadonlyArray<number> = [1, 2, 3];

AnotherSimpleArray[0] = 2; //ERROR
AnotherSimpleArray.push(4); //ERROR
AnotherSimpleArray.pop(); //ERROR

AnotherSimpleArray = [4, 5, 6]; //OK
```

But the main use for `readonly` would be in interfaces and classes, where setting something to `readonly` does not mean that the value cannot be changed, but that it cannot be reassigned.

♦

_Sources:_

- [TypeScript 3.4 - release log](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-4.html#caveats)
- [TypeScript docs](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/typescript-in-5-minutes-func.html#readonly-and-const)
- [TypeScript deep dive](https://basarat.gitbook.io/typescript/type-system/readonly#difference-from-const)
- [Marius Schulz's blog](https://mariusschulz.com/blog/read-only-array-and-tuple-types-in-typescript)
